Rstudio server login instructions (#194)
AlexsLemonade/training-modules: virtual-setup/rstudio-login.md

## RStudio Server Set Up

We will send you your Username and temporary password by a direct message on Slack, after you are logged in on [Cancer Data Science](http://ccdatalab.org/slack).

> Go to https://rstudio.ccdatalab.org (You may want to bookmark this) and type in your username and temporary password, and click `Sign in`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Go to https://rstudio.ccdatalab.org and type in your username and temporary password, and click `Sign in`.
You may want to bookmark https://rstudio.ccdatalab.org for the duration of the workshop.
```

> Go to https://rstudio.ccdatalab.org (You may want to bookmark this) and type in your username and temporary password, and click `Sign in`.

Reviewer: Reiterate what RStudio is and what RStudio server is here - I don't think you can assume folks have looked at `intro-to-R-tidyverse/00a-rstudio_guide.md` before they get to this document.

> ![RStudio Login](screenshots/rstudio-server-login.png)

Reviewer: Can you use HTML for these images so you have a bit more control over the size? Some examples here: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/AlexsLemonade/training-modules/master/virtual-setup/slack-procedures.md

My rationale is that some of these important points are swamped by the unnecessarily large screenshots. I'll comment in specific cases.

Signing in should bring you to the RStudio session page.
Click on the `Terminal` tab.

![RStudio Session](screenshots/rstudio-session-terminal.png)

Type in the `passwd` command in the `Terminal` tab.

![RStudio change password](screenshots/rstudio-password-change-1.png)

> ...and press `Enter`. Then type in the password you were given in Slack.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Press `Enter`. Then type in the password you were given in Slack.
```

This line gets a little lost for me in between the screenshots. That may be helped by making the adjacent screenshots smaller or playing around with `<br>`.

We will send you your Username and temporary password by a direct message on Slack, after you are logged in on [Cancer Data Science](http://ccdatalab.org/slack).

Go to https://rstudio.ccdatalab.org (You may want to bookmark this) and type in your username and temporary password, and click `Sign in`.

![RStudio Login](screenshots/rstudio-server-login.png)

Signing in should bring you to the RStudio session page.
Click on the `Terminal` tab.

![RStudio Session](screenshots/rstudio-session-terminal.png)

Type in the `passwd` command in the `Terminal` tab.

![RStudio change password](screenshots/rstudio-password-change-1.png)

...and press `Enter`. Then type in the password you were given in Slack.

![RStudio change password](screenshots/rstudio-password-change-2.png)

Type in the new password you've chosen once, and press `Enter`, then it will ask you to confirm by typing it in again.
Also press `Enter`.
If you forget your password at anytime, Slack on of the CCDL team members to assist you.

## Navigating the RStudio Server

In the upper right corner of the session page, you should see these buttons:

![RStudio Navigation](screenshots/rstudio-session-buttons.png)

> You can restart your R session with the orange, circular, on/off button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can restart your R session with the orange circular on/off button.
```

Reviewer 2: I feel like the behavior of this button may be inconsistent. Whenever I click in on the server I get sent to the workspaces page. It never just restarts the server for me.

Reviewer: Love this for us 😂

Reviewer: Are we talking about the same thing @jashapiro : https://github.com/AlexsLemonade/training-modules/pull/194#discussion_r413946105

Author: I find that sometimes it sends me to the workspaces page, sometimes it leaves me at the `Session Ended` page with the guy going out the door.

Author: Currently, it is sending me directly to the workspaces page, so that's what I'm writing it as.

Reviewer: I have literally never seen
> Session Ended page with the guy going out the door.

Reviewer 2: > Are we talking about the same thing @jashapiro : [#194 (comment)](https://github.com/AlexsLemonade/training-modules/pull/194#discussion_r413946105)

Yes, I think so. So I tend to think "restart" is the wrong verb in this sentence.

Author: This guy, going out the door:
![r-studio-session-ended](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/23458084/80131640-86a0ce80-8568-11ea-92b7-464b39bb267c.png)

Reviewer: Ah, that guy.

You will want to do this each time you switch to notebooks, more on this in the
[RStudio guide instructions](../intro-to-R-tidyverse/00a-rstudio_guide.md).

### About RStudio Server sessions

> Clicking on the house button will bring you to the RStudio server workspaces page.

Reviewer: Note when you hit the on/off button you see this and then have to start a new session. You may want a screenshot in the above section that illustrates 1) what it looks like when you have no sessions because you ended a session 2) how you would go about starting a new session. 

Side note for possible future modifications: I think we might want to use `.Rproj` for each module so people can open a project, but we're not there yet.

Here, you will be able to see and manage all your currently running sessions.

![RStudio Navigation](screenshots/rstudio-workspaces.png)

You can start a new Session with the `+ Session` button.
We kindly ask you shut down any sessions you aren't using so we conserve computing power.

> Click on a Session in the list to return to it.

Reviewer: Ah, you have this information here. I think it's okay to repeat yourself because I think this transition between notebooks could be a point of friction. You might want to allude to the fact that you're repeating yourself, though.

Back on the session page, you are able to see the current files in your `home` directory in the `Files` tab in the lower right panel in your session.

![RStudio Files](screenshots/rstudio-files.png)

> Here, you will find the `training-modules` folder that contains our course materials and the `shared-data` that contains the data we will be using in the modules.

Reviewer: Be explicit about what you mean by `Here` 
```suggestion
In your `home` directory, you will find the `training-modules` folder that contains our course materials and the `shared-data` that contains the data we will be using in the modules.
```

The files in these folders are accessible in each R session you start.
Restarting R sessions will refresh what is in your `Environment` tab in the upper right panel.

> We go into more detail on the R environment and other RStudio navigating tidbits in our [guide to RStudio](../intro-to-R-tidyverse/00a-rstudio_guide.md) as well as our first [Intro to R notebook](intro-to-R-tidyverse/01-intro_to_base_R.Rmd).

Author: The second link, the one to the R notebook, was broken here. I fixed it but haven't pushed the change. Will wait for more changes.
